---
title: Manual for Listeners
layout: default
permalink: manuals/m1
---

[Manual for Listeners](/manuals/m1) - - - [Manual for Podcasters](/manuals/m2)


# Manual for Listeners

This manual describes the use of Panoptikum from the listener perspektive. Panoptikum.io offers basic functionality plus additional functionality for registered users.

Basic Functionality for Listeners
* Latest Recommendations
* Latest Podcasts
* Latest Episodes
* Top 10 subscribed Podcasts
* Top 5 liked Podcasts
* Podcast discovery: Categories, Random, Search
* User friendly presentation of the information from the RSS feed regarding the podcast and the episodes

Panoptikum offers you the chance to discover new podcasts for your player.

## Startpage

The startpage of Panoptikum.io offers you a wide range of possibilities to discover new podcasts.

### Latest recommendations

Registered users can write personal recommendations for podcasts. Under lastest recommendations you see the name of the podcast, the username of the recommender, the date of the recommendation and the text of the recommendation.

With a click on  
* name of the podcast you reach the Panoptikum page of this podcast with further information
* username you get a list of all the podcasts liked by this user
* more... you get the latest 15 personal recommendations and more

### Latest podcasts

Under latest podcasts you find those podcasts that were recently added by registered users to the Panoptkum database via upload of their OPML file. You see the name of the podcasts, the name(s) of the contributors, the date when the podcast was added (available since) and the description of the podcast.

With a click on
* name of the podcast you reach the Panoptikum page of this podcast with further information
* name of a contributor you reach the Panoptikum page of the contributor with further information
* more... you get the 10 latest podcasts and more





My name is Sonja and I am a podcast listener since 2005. As my interests changed my feed list changed as well, but a constant is that each new podcast I suscribed to in the past was a personal recommendation. That's why I think the idea of Panoptikum is great - it could widen the circle of recommendations for me based on my current subscription list. I support this project with my time in the role of a communty manager. So if you have any questions, don't hesitate to contact me via <sonja@panoptikum.io>.

## First Asked Questions

To start this section I've interviewed Stefan and asked my questions. Hopefully YOUR questions will follow and this section grows.

### Information for Podcasters
Q: Which information does Panoptikum offer to podcasters?

A: Panoptikum shows statistics regarding podcasts directly on the page. The API offers the possibility for podcasters to retrieve data to build their own statistics. No information regarding single listeners is be offered via the API.

### Privacy
Q: What happens with the information (user registration, subscription list) I provide?

A: Panoptikum tries to ask (and save) only information that is required to offer the service. It does not intend to collect demographic data or to identify single persons. During the registration you are asked for an email address (required for password recovery), an user name (used for your reviews, comments and likes) and a password (for login). You can choose any user name as long as it has not ben taken yet within Panoptikum. Panoptikum uses your uploaded subscription list to add podcasts to the Panoptikum podcast list and store that you are a subscriber. Panoptikum stores your reviews, comments and likes.

### Registration
Q: What are the benefits for me, if I register myself at Panoptikum?

A: You can get recommendations based on your subscriptions list ("others that subscribed to this podcast also like ...") and you can post reviews regarding podcasts you have subscribed.

### Subscription List
Q: What is the subscription list?

A: Your podcast catcher (for example gPodder) can export the list of your podcast subscriptions (gPodder: Abonnements - zu OPML-Datei exportieren). This OPML-file is your subscription list that you can upload to Panoptikum after registration. If you upload your subscription list more then once, the latest upload replaces the existing list.

## Languages

The project language of Panoptikum is English. But feel free to send questions and comments in one of the following languages to <sonja@panoptikum.io>: English, French and German.
